EOS-Constitution.md, before:

# [Proposed] EOS Constitution

## Preamble

We, the Members of the EOS Chain `aca376f206b8fc25a6ed44dbdc66547c36c6c33e3a119ffbeaef943642f0e906`, with its stated goal of *securing life, liberty and property*, do establish this Constitution in order to shape a thriving Community via responsible governance.

The principles of responsible governance applied herein include: (i) separation of powers; (ii) accountability of governing bodies to its Members; and (iii) preservation of Member's rights.

## Article I - Constitution

1. This document is entitled: The EOS Constitution (hereafter: "Constitution").
1. Constitution establishes a society composed of all Members of Community.
1. Constitution's rules supercede any subsidiary body of rules.
1. Any person that makes active use or draws benefit from Community or Chain is considered a consenting Member of Community.

## Article II - Jurisdiction

1. Community establishes rules with which to govern itself.
1. Any adjudication within Community is done on a consenting basis.
1. Use of Chain implies consent to the Constitution.
1. Community does not impose nor repeal any existing Law in any state jurisdiction.
1. Community, governing bodies and Members shall adhere to Laws of states to which it is subject.

## Article III - Separation of Powers

1. Each governing body, as defined in this Article: (i) has limited powers; (ii) is accountable to Community.
1. Legislative: Community is empowered to enact Laws.
1. Executive: Block Producers are appointed with powers to perform general governance of ongoing affairs.
1. Judicial: Arbitrators are appointed with powers to adjucate.

## Article IV - Community

1. Community is composed of Members as per Article I(3).
1. Community's collective voice, mandate and resolution is established via referendum, as established in Article V.
1. Community may enact Statute via majority referendum.
1. Community shall enact no laws that abridge the rights of Members as listed in Article VIII.
1. Community may amend Constitution or its related governing documents via a super-majority referendum.
1. Community appoints Block Producer by election.
1. Community may remove a Block Producer by: (i) unvoting, or (ii) super-majority referendum.
1. Community may overturn an Arbitrator finding or remove an Arbitrator via a super-majority referendum.

## Article V - Referendum

 1. Community may vote on any motion that is duly proposed.
 1. A majority referendum is achieved when a properly conducted referendum result counts yays in greater number than nays.
 1. A super-majority referendum is achieved when a properly conducted result counts yays to be at least twice in number than nays.
 1. A referendum must meet a quorum criteria of 15% of total Token supply.

## Article VI - Block Producers

1. Block Producers have a responsibility to: (i) ensure that Chain stays in operation; and (ii) take reasonable care to protect Member's rights.
1. Block Producers are voted in by the Community.
1. The top 21 Block Producers with most votes are selected to perform active block production of Chain.
1. Block Producers may duly effect a Change in the Chain when a Change Proposal is approved by at least 15 out of 21 appointed Block Producers.
1. Block Producers have a duty to perform duly submitted Arbitrator Orders insofar as it does not interfere with responsibilities outlined in this Article.

## Article VII - Arbitrators

1. Arbitrators have the responsibility to: (i) protect rights of Members; (ii) apply the Law.
1. Arbitrators may operate in the following scopes: (i) constitutional and statutory matters; or (ii) civil matters.
1. On constitutional matters: (i) Arbitrators must be appointed as per rules outlined by the International Chamber of Commerce; and (ii) Arbitrators must publish findings of their cases for Community scrutiny.
1. This Article does not restrict rights of parties to appoint the Arbitrator of their choice on civil matters.

## Article VIII - Rights of Members

1. Members have the right to property.
1. Members have the right to associate.
1. Members have the right to contract.
1. Members' rights may only be suspended by a valid Arbitrator's Order when said Member is found liable for a Violation as per Article IX.

## Article IX - Violation

1. The Community shall codify rules that prohibit acts that are harmful to either individual Members or to the Community.
1. Members agree to observe codified rules as enacted by Community.
1. Arbitrators shall apply duly enacted codified rules.
1. Arbitrator orders that limit Member(s)' rights, as outlined in Article VIII, may only be issued: (i) in conjunction with a duly appointed Arbitrator's finding of guilt of said Member(s); or (ii) as a temporary interim measure to prevent harm to other Members.

## Article X - Fiduciary

1. For the avoidance of doubt, Community explicitly avoids being considered by itself, as well as Token, a security or a securitized product.
1. Community does not assign any fiduciary duty to any person charged with affecting in any way the value of Token.

## Article XI - Power Distribution

1. Community is composed of Members, each enjoying equal recognition under Law--however, Members may exert for voting power commensurate to the amount of Token in their ownership.
1. No single person shall exert controlling interest over more than 10% of Token supply.
1. Members may not vote with Token under their custody which is not under said Member's ownership.

## Article XII - Governing Documents

1. Governing Documents include smart contracts that govern: (i) fiscal policy of Token; (ii) appointed arbitrators; (iii) appointed Block Producers.
1. Governing Documents must adhere to Constitution.
1. Governing Documents supersede enacted Laws.

----------

[index](README.md)

Commit message:

Updated referendum and BP duty

EOS-Constitution.md, after:

# [Proposed] EOS Constitution

## Preamble

We, the Members of the EOS chain with the ID of `aca376f206b8fc25a6ed44dbdc66547c36c6c33e3a119ffbeaef943642f0e906` ("Chain"), with its stated goal of *securing life, liberty and property*, do establish this Constitution in order to shape a thriving Community via responsible governance.

The principles of responsible governance applied herein include: (i) separation of powers; (ii) accountability of governing bodies to its Members; and (iii) preservation of Member's rights.

## Article I - Constitution

1. This document is entitled: The EOS Constitution (hereafter: "Constitution").
1. Constitution establishes a society composed of all Members of Community.
1. Constitution's rules supercede any subsidiary body of rules.
1. Any person that makes active use or draws benefit from Community or Chain is considered a consenting Member of Community.

## Article II - Jurisdiction

1. Community establishes rules with which to govern itself.
1. Any adjudication within Community is done on a consenting basis.
1. Use of Chain implies consent to the Constitution.
1. Community does not impose nor repeal any existing Law in any state jurisdiction.
1. Community, governing bodies and Members shall adhere to Laws of states to which it is subject.

## Article III - Separation of Powers

1. Each governing body, as defined in this Article: (i) has limited powers; (ii) is accountable to Community.
1. Legislative: Community is empowered to establish rules.
1. Executive: Block Producers are appointed with powers to perform general governance of ongoing affairs.
1. Judicial: Arbitrators are appointed with powers to adjucate.

## Article IV - Community

1. Community is composed of Members as per Article I(4).
1. Community's collective voice, mandate and resolution is established via referenda.
1. Community may enact rules via majority referenda.
1. Community shall establish no rule that abridges the rights of Members as listed in Article VIII.
1. Community may amend Constitution or its related governing documents via referenda.
1. Community appoints Block Producer by election.
1. Community may remove a Block Producer by: (i) unvoting, or (ii) referenda.
1. Community may overturn an Arbitrator finding or remove an Arbitrator via referenda.

## Article V - Referendum

1. Community may vote on any motion that is duly proposed via Referendum Procedure.
1. Referendum Procedure shall be encapsulated within a contract.

## Article VI - Block Producers

1. Block Producers have the duty--in order of priority--to: (i) ensure that Chain stays in operation; (ii) perform Arbitrator orders; and (iii) to improve Chain.
1. Block Producers are voted in by the Community.
1. The top 21 Block Producers with most votes are selected to perform active block production of Chain.
1. Block Producers may duly effect a Change in the Chain when a Change Proposal is approved by at least 15 out of 21 appointed Block Producers.
1. Block Producers have a duty to perform duly submitted Arbitrator Orders insofar as it does not interfere with responsibilities outlined in this Article.

## Article VII - Arbitrators

1. Arbitrators have the responsibility to: (i) protect rights of Members; (ii) apply the Law.
1. Arbitrators may operate in the following scopes: (i) constitutional and statutory matters; or (ii) civil matters.
1. On constitutional matters: (i) Arbitrators must be appointed as per rules outlined by the International Chamber of Commerce; and (ii) Arbitrators must publish findings of their cases for Community scrutiny.
1. This Article does not restrict rights of parties to appoint the Arbitrator of their choice on civil matters.

## Article VIII - Rights of Members

1. Members have the right to property.
1. Members have the right to associate.
1. Members have the right to contract.
1. Members' rights may only be suspended by a valid Arbitrator's Order when said Member is found liable for a Violation as per Article IX.

## Article IX - Violation

1. The Community shall codify rules that prohibit acts that are harmful to either individual Members or to the Community.
1. Members agree to observe codified rules as enacted by Community.
1. Arbitrators shall apply duly enacted codified rules.
1. Arbitrator orders that limit Member(s)' rights, as outlined in Article VIII, may only be issued: (i) in conjunction with a duly appointed Arbitrator's finding of guilt of said Member(s); or (ii) as a temporary interim measure to prevent harm to other Members.

## Article X - Fiduciary

1. For the avoidance of doubt, Community explicitly avoids being considered by itself, as well as Token, a security or a securitized product.
1. Community does not assign any fiduciary duty to any person charged with affecting in any way the value of Token.

## Article XI - Power Distribution

1. Community is composed of Members, each enjoying equal recognition under Law--however, Members may exert for voting power commensurate to the amount of Token in their ownership.
1. No single person shall exert controlling interest over more than 10% of Token supply.
1. Members may not vote with Token under their custody which is not under said Member's ownership.

## Article XII - Governing Documents

1. Governing Documents include smart contracts that govern: (i) fiscal policy of Token; (ii) appointed arbitrators; (iii) appointed Block Producers.
1. Governing Documents must adhere to Constitution.
1. Governing Documents supersede enacted Laws.

----------

[index](README.md)
